
:Author: Jack Lloyd
:Date: 2011-06-03

Version 1.9.18, 2011-06-03
----------------------------------------

Fourth release candidate for 1.10.0

The GOST 34.10 verification operation was not ensuring that s and r
were both greater than zero. This could potentially have meant it
would have accepted an invalid all-zero signature as valid for any
message. Due to how ECC points are internally represented it instead
resulted in an exception being thrown.

A simple multiexponentation algorithm is now used in ECDSA and
GOST-34.10 signature verification, leading to 20 to 25% improvements
in ECDSA and 25% to 40% improvements in GOST-34.10 verification
performance.

The internal representation of elliptic curve points has been
modified to use Montgomery representation exclusively, resulting in
reduced memory usage and a 10 to 20% performance improvement for
ECDSA and ECDH.

In OAEP decoding, scan for the delimiter bytes using a loop that is
written without conditionals so as to help avoid timing analysis.
Unfortunately GCC at least is 'smart' enough to compile it to
jumps anyway.

The SSE2 implementation of IDEA did not work correctly when compiled
by Clang, because the trick it used to emulate a 16 bit unsigned
compare in SSE (which doesn't contain one natively) relied on signed
overflow working in the 'usual' way. A different method that doesn't
rely on signed overflow is now used.

Add support for compiling SSL using Visual C++ 2010's TR1
implementation.

Fix a bug under Visual C++ 2010 which would cause ``hex_encode`` to
crash if given a zero-sized input to encode.

A new build option ``--via-amalgamation`` will first generate the
single-file amalgamation, then build the library from that single
file. This option requires a lot of memory and does not parallelize,
but the resulting library is smaller and may be faster.

On Unix, the library and header paths have been changed to allow
parallel installation of different versions of the library. Headers
are installed into ``<prefix>/include/botan-1.9/botan``, libraries
are named ``libbotan-1.9``, and ``botan-config`` is now namespaced
(so in this release ``botan-config-1.9``). All of these embedded
versions will be 1.10 in the upcoming stable release.

The soname system has been modified. In this release the library
soname is ``libbotan-1.9.so.0``, with the full library being named
``libbotan-1.9.so.0.18``. The ``0`` is the ABI version, and will be
incremented whenever a breaking ABI change is made.

TR1 support is not longer automatically assumed under older versions
of GCC

Functions for base64 decoding that work standalone (without needing
to use a pipe) have been added to ``base64.h``

The function ``BigInt::to_u32bit`` was inadvertently removed in 1.9.11
and has been added back.

The function ``BigInt::get_substring`` did not work correctly with a
*length* argument of 32.

The implementation of ``FD_ZERO`` on Solaris uses ``memset`` and
assumes the caller included ``string.h`` on its behalf. Do so to
fix compilation in the ``dev_random`` and ``unix_procs`` entropy
sources. Patch from Jeremy C. Reed.

Add two different configuration targets for Atom, since some are
32-bit and some are 64-bit. The 'atom' target now refers to the
64-bit implementations, use 'atom32' to target the 32-bit
processors.

The (incomplete) support for CMS and card verifiable certificates
are disabled by default; add ``--enable-modules=cms`` or
``--enable-modules=cvc`` during configuration to turn them back on.
